Contribution guide - debug build instructions (#262)
livepeer/lpms: doc/contributing.md

# Contributing

> Thank you for interest in contributing to LivePeer ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thank you for your interest in contributing to Livepeer Media Server.
```

# Working on Go code
If your goal is making changes solely to Go part of the codebase, just follow [Requirements](https://github.com/livepeer/lpms/#requirements) section and make sure you have all dependencies to build Go scripts successfully. Debugging with Delve, GDB, or, visually, with IDE (e.g. JetBrains GoLand, Microsoft VS Code) should work fine.

> # Working on CGO interface and FFMpeg code

Reviewer: We can probably add a short note on what works and doesn't with GDB/Delve.

For example with GDB, I've been able to set breakpoints in Go code, LPMS C code by default, and FFmpeg C code with the build steps given here.

But manually `step`ping from Go -> C boundary doesn't work, and `bt` stack traces are also limited to the language boundary.

Feel free to add if it works better with Delve, or an IDE.

Author: Done.

When working on CGO interface, or [FFmpeg](https://github.com/livepeer/FFmpeg/) fork, chances are you might want to create a separate debug build of all components. 

To do it:
1. Copy `~/compiled` dir created by `install_ffmpeg.sh` to `compiled_debug`
2. If you want to keep system-wide Ffmpeg installation, remove/rename system `pkg-config` (.pc) files of Ffmpeg libs (located in `/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig/` on most Linux distros). Otherwise, `pkg-config` will prioritize system libs without debug information.
3. [FFmpeg](https://github.com/livepeer/FFmpeg/) should be already cloned after running `install_ffmpeg.sh`. Navigate to FFmpeg dir and run `configure` as below, making sure all paths are correct.
    ```
    export ROOT=/projects/livepeer/src
    export PATH="$ROOT/compiled_debug/bin":$PATH
    export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="${PKG_CONFIG_PATH:-}:$ROOT/compiled_debug/lib/pkgconfig"

>     ./configure --fatal-warnings \

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we can incorporate this into the `install_ffmpeg.sh` script. Would be cool if we could do something like `./install_ffmpeg.sh --debug` to do an install with debugging enabled and with the relevant libs installed stored in a dedicated debug directory like `compiled_debug`.

Reviewer: +1 on having the debug flags become a part of the `install_ffmpeg.sh` script. We also need to bring this and the `go-livepeer` install ffmpeg script closer to feature parity, with the only difference being explicitly enabling only the protocols, decoders, encoders we need in `go-livepeer` because it's a binary that we release.

But this is a great starting point, and we can handle that in a separate PR.

        --enable-filter=aresample,asetnsamples,fps,scale,hwdownload,select,livepeer_dnn,signature \
        --enable-encoder=aac,libx264 \
        --enable-decoder=aac,h264 \
        --extra-cflags="-I${ROOT}/compiled_debug/include -g3 -ggdb -fno-inline" \
        --extra-ldflags="-L${ROOT}/compiled_debug/lib ${EXTRA_LDFLAGS}" \
        --enable-cuda --enable-cuda-llvm --enable-cuvid --enable-nvenc --enable-decoder=h264_cuvid --enable-filter=scale_cuda --enable-encoder=h264_nvenc \
        --enable-libtensorflow \
        --prefix="$ROOT/compiled_debug" \
        --enable-debug=3                \
        --disable-optimizations \
        --disable-stripping
    ```
4. Run `make install`
5. Make sure there are debug symbols in newly built static libs:
    ```
    objdump --syms compiled_debug/lib/libavcodec.a
    ```
6. Now you can build Go apps with debug information. Use absolute path in `PKG_CONFIG_PATH` to point to `compiled_debug` dir:
    ```
    PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/projects/livepeer/src/compiled_debug/lib/pkgconfig go build -a -gcflags all="-N -l" cmd/scenedetection/scenedetection.go
    ```

> 7. Check that Go executable linked correctly. You shouldn't see any FFmpeg's dynamic libraries in LDD output for newly built binary (e.g. `libavcodec.so`).

Reviewer: Both this and the next one are marked as step # `7`.

It's slightly unclear to me if we're recommending the user to link the `libav*` libraries statically or dynamically.

If they're linked statically - I think `ldd` shouldn't output anything, and in the next step we don't need `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`. We can probably do away with this step altogether if we're going that route. Let me know if I missed something.

Author: Shared libraries are more convenient when debugging, updated the doc.
